Tejaswi's Blog (#70)
IEEE-NITK/blog: _posts/2022-04-08-sessions-and-jwt.md

When used only for authorization, you should use a signing algorithm such as HMAC (JWT also supports public/private key encryption like RSA or ECDSA when two way communication is needed). When you use a token for authorization, it should only be modifiable by the server. Thus, the server needs to sign the token with a strong and secret key. Anytime the content of the token is changed, it needs to be re-signed.

The secret used for signing should also be long and random. 

## __Sessions Vs. JWT - Advantages and Disadvantages__

There is no benefit to using one over the other. Each has its own tradeoffs. Depending on the application, one might be suitable over the other. Usually token based authorization is preferred when there is no continuous session being maintained such as in API services. Sessions is good for situations where the user stays logged in for some time while working.

That being said, here are some tradeoffs:

### _Sessions_

The client holds no sensitive data. Invalidation of a session is as simple as just removing it from the storage. 

> Usually servers are sitting behind a load balancer which splits the incoming traffic. In this case, a user's request may be sent to server 1 for logging in but sent to server 2 for the next. To make sure that the session persists accross the server instances, either the session id must be stored in a shared memory or the load balancer must make sure to send the user's request to the same server everytime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Usually, servers are sitting behind a load balancer which splits the incoming traffic. In this case, a user's request may be sent to server 1 for logging in but sent to server 2 for the next. To make sure that the session persists across the server instances, either the session ID must be stored in shared memory or the load balancer must make sure to send the user's request to the same server every time.
```

### _JWT_

The server doesn't have to maintain a state. All the necessary details are contained within the JWT itself. This also avoid the load balancer problem since the server doesn't have to remember anything.

JWT isn't limited to authorization and has other applications in multiple other situations as well.

> Signing out or invalidating an user / user's token is a bit hard. A separate storage needs to be maintained with the expiried tokens and each time a token is submitted, it needs to be checked for validity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Signing out or invalidating a user/user's token is a bit hard. Separate storage needs to be maintained with the expired tokens and each time a token is submitted, it needs to be checked for validity.
```
